.TH EEVO 1 "December 2025" "eevo 0.1"
.PP
.SH NAME
eevo \- easy expression value organizer
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
eevo [-ihv] [-e EXPRESSION] [FILE ...] [-]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The default interpreter for the eevo programming language. Read and evaluate all files in order given, if file name is '-' read from 'stdin'. If no files are supplied launch the read-evaluate-print-loop (REPL) for interactive running of commands.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-e EXPRESSION\fP
Read \fIEXPRESSION\fP as a line of eevo code, evaluate, and print result
.PP
.TP
\fB-i\fP
Enter interactive mode by launching the REPL prompt. Default behavior if no arguments are given. Explicit option used to load files and then run REPL, enabling interaction with the code. Equivalent to -e '(repl)'.
.PP
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print help and exit
.PP
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Print version info and exit
.PP
.SH USAGE
.PP
Run the program from the command line to type a single command and press enter to see the result.
.PP
.RS 4
.EX

$ eevo
> Pair 1 2
[1 ... 2]
> list 1 (+ 1 1) 3 (* 2 2)
[1 2 3 4]

.EE
.RE
.PP
Alternatively you can pass a file name which will be opened and run, outputting the result before exiting.
.PP
.RS 4
.EX

$ echo '((Func (x) (+ x 1)) 10)' > inc.evo
$ eevo inc.evo
11

.EE
.RE
.PP
Commands can also be piped directing into eevo through the command line.
.PP
.RS 4
.EX

$ echo '(= "foo" "foo")' | eevo
True

.EE
.RE
.PP
Or given directly to eevo as an argument:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX

$ eevo -e "(reverse '(1/2 1/4 1/8 1/16))"
(1/16 1/8 1/4 1/2)

.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
eevo(5)
.PP
.PP
View homepage at <https://eevo.pub>
.PP
.PP
View source code at <https://codeberg.org/eevo/eevo>
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Edryd van Bruggen <ed@edryd.org>
.PP
.SH LICENSE
.PP
zlib License
.PP

